>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so
now we're in our Service Worker, and
we need to hook up the other
end of that communication.
The blog that's gonna be
sending status updates, but
we're also gonna wanna be requesting them.
Since we're making a pretty major
change to our Service Worker,
I'm gonna go ahead and
bump the version, and
then we're going to,
>> Kyle Simpson: Set
up some other variables like isOnline.
>> Kyle Simpson: We'll assume true for
that one.
And then isLoggedIn,
we'll assume false for that one.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then we want to set up some event
listeners,
>> Kyle Simpson: Actually, just one.
We're gonna listen for the message event.
>> Kyle Simpson: So the one place
that we want to ask for an update,
we may receive updates at other times.
But the one time we definitely wanna
ask for an update is right here.
So I'm gonna take out this console log
message since it seems a bit redundant
at this point.
I'm gonna just say await sendMessage,
which we're gonna define.
And you remember from the blog
that the thing that we're
expecting to see is called
requestStatusUpdate.
So let's actually pass
in requestStatusUpdate.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
let's define our sendMessage.
We'll make it an async
function sendMessage.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, this one is
a little bit more complex since, again,
as I mentioned, we have multiple
clients that we might be talking to.
So we need to first get
a list of all those clients.
>> Kyle Simpson: You remember when
I was talking about clients.claim?
Here we're gonna do another
call on that client API,
it's called clients.matchAll.
And we're gonna configure that matchAll
call to include uncontrolled clients.
>> Kyle Simpson: A little
long line length there.
Okay, so now we want to send
something to all of them.
So I'm going to do a Promise.all,
because I'm gonna
turn that list of clients
into a list of promises.
These post messages in Service Workers
are promise returning APIs because
they're synchronous.
So we need to listen for
all those promises to finish so
that we know that we're done.
So I'm gonna take allClients and
I'm gonna map it,
>> Kyle Simpson: With,
>> Kyle Simpson: Send the client message.
>> Kyle Simpson: Promise.all,
don't forget, takes an array.
So I forgot to put that,
you gotta put the array in there.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
we're gonna make a message channel.
Remember I referred to that this
is a special kind of way of
creating multiple things.
Because we just have the one Service
Worker that lots of people are talking to,
and we need to manage who
we're getting responses from.
We're gonna make a new message channel for
each client that we're talking to.
So I'll say, = new MessageChannel.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'm gonna listen for
messages from that MessageChannel, and
route them to my single onMessage handler.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry,
I can't listen directly on the channel,
I have to listen on
the port that is created.
So remember, it creates two ports,
one for me and one for the remote.
So I'm gonna say, chan.port1.onMessage,
and then I'm gonna say
client.postMessage,
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
gonna send the message.
>> Kyle Simpson: And the place that
I'm gonna send it to specifically is
channel.port2.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in other words, port1
is me, that's how I receive messages,
port2 is how you receive messages.
And I'm gonna send two port2 and
listen on port1.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm gonna return
this because client.postMessage
returns us a promise.
So we'll listen for that promise,
that flows into the array,
which flows into Promise.all.
>> Kyle Simpson: I just realized I don't
need those square brackets after all,
because that's what .map is doing.
That would have created a problem.
So this should be Promise.all with
parentheses, not square brackets.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
let's review where we're at in our main.
In other words, whenever we start up,
we're gonna call sendMessage.
We're gonna request a status update,
that status update's gonna
come from our various clients.
Be aware that we're creating a single
state store of these two variables.
And we are asking potentially
multiple clients to update that.
If those clients were in different states
for some reason, we would want to be doing
more than just updating a single
set of boolean variables.
We'd wanna have some list of all
the different state sets that we're paying
attention to, and
store the data in each one of those.
For our purposes, the state's simple
enough that I can't imagine a scenario
where you're gonna be online in one and
not online in the other, or
something like that.
But do be aware, if you're gonna be
keeping stuff in sync like this,
if you have multiple clients open,
like the user's opened up multiple tabs,
you might be getting
different information.
Which would manifest itself in
a race condition in your app,
so be careful with that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Last thing we wanna do
here is write our onMessage function.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's going to receive,
>> Kyle Simpson: Our onMessage function
is going to receive an event object which
we will just destructure into the data.
And we want to check to see if this is
a message that's given us a status update.
So if,
>> Kyle Simpson: I
guess we can say If.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
we wanna update our two variables, and
I'm gonna use destructuring
to save time there.
So I'm gonna say that (isOnline,
isLoggedIn) = data.statusUpdate.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm
destructuring that object and
assigning it to the variables
of those same property names.
>> Kyle Simpson: For good measure, let's
go ahead and do a console log statement,
so that we can see our
Service Worker changing its state.
So Service Worker,
let's do v, version,
>> Kyle Simpson: isOnline,
>> Kyle Simpson: isLoggedIn.
>> Kyle Simpson: That way,
we can just verify that it is in fact
getting the status updates that we want.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, I think we've made
all the changes we need both on the blog
side and the Service Worker side,
so let's go test it out.
Now before you do any kind of refreshing,
let's come over to our developer tools.
Let's check on the status of things.
You notice that this says, in my browser,
it's 368 cuz I've had 367 previous
mistakes with my Service Worker,
or previous versions of my service worker,
I guess, so mine says 368.
We're just gonna wanna make sure that,
when we refresh, that that changes, and
it should, but
we just wanna make sure that it changes.
So I'm going to do a simple
refresh of the page,
or I could do a navigation,
I guess you can just click a navigation.
And if we come over here,
you'll notice now it has moved to 369.
Let's look at our console, and I'll just
temporarily zoom this so you can read.
We see that Service Worker 2 is installed,
version 2.
statusUpdate true, isOnline true,
but not logged in.
>> Kyle Simpson: If I clear this
console and then, in my network,
I'm gonna have to zoom out here,
I toggle offline, and
we go back to our console.
You notice that the Service Worker has
now been notified that we are offline.
Still not logged in,
but now we are offline.
When we come back online,
>> Kyle Simpson: Now
our Service Worker knows
that we're back online.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
check the isLoggedIn part,
if I actually go log in,
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not yet
logged in, which is why it says false,
I'll clear that,
>> Kyle Simpson: But once I log
in,
>> Kyle Simpson: Now
it says isLoggedIn true.
So our Service Worker's being notified
of our various state changes,
our online and our logged in status.
If we log back out, now the Service Worker
knows that we're logged out.